The Dragonheart War, also known as the Erathoran Civil War or the elven war that ended all wars was a major conflict in the elven realms of the floating isles.<br/>The war was maily a conflcit between two major previous kingdoms and a few other city states. Nendal, a powerful and imperialistic island state had major dominance in the skies while its closes neighbor and previous enemy, Florenita had dominance in the rest of the isles. Towards the end of the war, Florenita joined forces with Nendal in an echange of the death of their last and only heir in Nendal, High King Ointh VII.<br/>The war ended when the house of Florenita replaced the previous currupted Nendal family and the crowning of High King Edmund. The war lasted roughly from 2160 - 2178 and legitmentally was the war to end all conflict in the elven realms. However it wasn't the last conflict in general, later the elves after finally uniting togethor, had an even worse conflict and it wasn't a war between elf and elf, it was a war between elf and monster.. The events that would spark the *Erathora Chronicles*. 

Count Ellis
In the presence of the war, Ellis who was a bridgeheart noble who later served as commander of the navy eventually became Count of the House of Florenita in 2178. His ambitions was to become High King, but could never get the title, eventually he became obsessed with sorcery and established an outpost in an island he later named *Count Ellis Island*. Served as for the royal watch, Ellis eventually decided to form a friendship with the humans down below, hoping to establish a network between elves and man, which was forbidden due to the belief that mankind was too dnagerous and plague infested. 

|Allied|Central|
|---|---|
Florenita<br/>Ecodia<br/>City state of Caslav | Nendal;<br/>State of Bridgeheart |
