|Gregorian Calendar|Galactic Standard Calendar|Event|
|---|---|---|
Unestimated | Millennia before the Battle of Yavin (Pre-Clone Wars) | ◦ One or more ancestral species unlock the secrets of hyperspace travel and open the galaxy for exploration.<br/>◦ The Zillo Beasts are believed extinct.<br/>◦ Force sensitives gather to form the Jedi Order, dedicated to the preservation of peace and justice. The world Ilum comes into their possession.<Br/>◦ Unidentified rogue Jedi is born.<br/>◦ A group of malevolent Force users splits from the Jedi Order during the Hundred-Year Darkness. They form the Sith Order.<br/>◦ The Jedi attack the Sith temple on Malachor, and battle the Sith. All participants are petrified.<br/>• Over 6,021 years before the Battle of Yavin<br/>◦ Through the use of slavery, the Sith build an empire that spans the galaxy, beginning a brief period of galactic dominance.<br/>◦ The Sith build a shrine on Coruscant. The Jedi later build the Jedi Temple on top of the shrine's foundations.
3056 BC | 5000 BBY | ◦ The Great Temple of Massassi is built by the Massassi on Yavin 4. 
2022 BC | 3966 BBY | ◦ Galactic travelers navigate hyperspace using hyperspace sextants. 
1333 BC | 3277 BBY | ◦ The Lothal Calendar is introduced.<br/>• Over 1036 years before the Battle of Yavin<br/>◦ Maz kanata is born. 
922 | 1022 BBY | ◦ The Battle of Takodana is fought between the Jedi and the Sith. (at least 1,000 years)<br/>◦ The Sith are defeated by the Jedi and are driven into hiding.<br/>◦ The Old Republic collapses.<br/>◦ Mandalorians raid the Jedi Temple and steal the darksaber.<br/>◦ Darth Bane establishes the Rule of Two.<br/>◦ Several solar systems unite and found the Galactic Republic.<br/>◦ The Zygerrian Slave Empire is defeated by the Jedi. 
925 | 1019 BBY | ◦ The Yavin Code is established at the Yavin Convention. 
1047 | 896 BBY | ◦ Yoda is born on an unknown planet. 
1077 | 867 BBY | ◦ Naboo joins the Galactic Republic. 
1147 | 797 BBY | ◦ Yoda begins to train Jedi in the ways of the Force. 
1344 | 600 BBY | ◦ Jabba Desilijic Tiure is born. 
1422 | 522 BBY | ◦ The Citadel is built to imprison rogue Jedi. 
1498 | 446 BBY | ◦ Yaddle is born.
1600 | 300 BBY | ◦ Garazeb Orrelios's grandmother is born
1700 | 200 BBY | ◦ Chewbacca is born on Kashyyyk. 
1842 | 102 BBY | ◦ Dooku is born. 
1852 | 92 BBY | ◦ Qin-Gon Jinn is born on Coruscant. 
c. 1860 | c. 84 BBY | ◦ Sheev Palpatine is born on Naboo. 
1871 | 73 BBY | ◦ Cad Bane is born on Duro. 
1872 | 72 BBY | ◦ Mace Windu is born on Haruun Kal. 
1880 | 64 BBY | ◦ Wilhuff Tarkin is born on Eriadu. 
1887 | 57 BBY | ◦ Obi-Wan Kenobi is born on Stewjon. 
1898 | 46 BBY | ◦ Padme Amidala (Padme Naberrie) is born on Naboo. 
1900 | 44 BBY | ◦ Garazeb Orrelios, also known as Zeb, is born on Lasan. 
1902 | 42 BBY | ◦ Anakin Skywalker is born to Shmi Skywalker. 
1903 | 41 BBY | ◦ Rae Sloane is born on Ganthel.<br/>• Before the Invasion of Naboo<br/>◦ Sifo-Dyas forsees an upcoming full-scale conflict but is removed from the Jedi Council. He secretly commissions the Kaminoans to grow a clone army for the Republic.<br/>◦ Battle of Malastare Narrows.<br/>◦ Obi-Wan Kenobi met Satine Kryze.<br/>◦ Lor San Tekka is born.<br/>◦ Asajj Ventress is born.<br/>◦ Mace Windu rescues a young girl name Depa Billaba.<br/>◦Finis Valorum replaces Kalpana as Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic.
1908 | 36 ABY | ◦ Ahsoka Tano is born on Shili.
1911 | 33 BBY | ◦ Caleb Dume (kanan Jarrus) is born on Coruscant.<br/>◦ Ahsoka Tano is accepted into the Jedi Order after Plo Koon discovers her on Shili.
1912 | 32 BBY | • Invasion of Naboo.<br/>◦ Battle of Naboo. Queen Amidala returns to Naboo and forms an alliance between the Naboo and Gungans. The Gungans engage the droid army while the Queen and her security force capture the leaders of the Trade Federation. Qin-Gon Jinn is killed by Darth Maul, who, in turn, is cut in half by Obi-Wan Kenobi but survives. Daultay Dofine is killed when the Droid Control Ship is destroyed by Anakin Skywalker.<br/>◦ Senator Sheev Palpatine is elected Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, replacing Finis Valorum.<br/>◦ The Jedi Council promotes Obi-Wan Kenobi to the rank of Jedi Knight and permits him to train Anakin Skywalker as a Jedi. 
1914 | 30 BBY | ◦ Lando Calrissian is born on Socorro. 
1915 | 29 BBY | ◦ Hera Syndulla is born on Ryloth. 
1917 | 27 BBY | ◦ Numa is born on Ryloth 
1922 | 22 BBY (Clone Wars) | ◦ Separatist Crisis. Thousands of star systems leave the Republic and join the Confederacy of Independent Systems and Count Dooku.<br/>◦ The Galactic Senate debates the Military Creation Act to determine whether the Galactic Republic should raise an army.<br/>◦ Antar 4 schism<br/>◦ Plot to assassinate Padme Amidala. Separatist leaders hope to silence the senator from Naboo, who opposes the Military Creation Act.<br/>◦ Mission to Kamino<br/>◦ Jar Jar Binks proposes that Chancellor Palpatine be given emergency powers to raise an army without the interference of the Senate.<Br/>◦ The Clone Wars begin with the Battle of Geonosis. Jango Fett in the fighting and many Jedi are killed in an attempt to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Padme Amidala from execution.<br/>◦ Anakin Skywalker and Padme Amidala are secretly wed on Naboo.<br/>◦ Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi send supplies to Bail Organa and his relief effort on Christophsis.<br/>◦ Rotta the Hutt is kidnapped by the Separatists in an attempt to get the Republic on the Hutt's bad side.<br/>◦ Ahsoka Tano becomes Anakin Skywalker's Padawan. 
1923 | 21 BBY | ◦ Sabine Wren is born on Mandalore.<br/>◦ Jyn Erso is born on Vallt. 
1925 | 19 BBY (Age of the Empire Period: Clone Wars (continued)) | ◦ Anakin Skywalker is anointed Darth Vader, Dark Lord of the Sith.<br/>◦ Order 66 wipes out the Jedi Order and nearly all Jedi.<br/>◦ The Republic is reorganized into the first Galactic Empire by Chancellor Palpatine — secretly the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious — who declares himself Galactic Emperor. 
1925 | 19 BBY (Pre-Galactic Civil War) | ◦ Ezra Bridger born to Mira and Ephraim Bridger on Lothal.<br/>◦ Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa are born to Padme Amidala on Polis Massa. Padme Amidala dies in childbirth. Obi-Wan Kenobi, who survived Order 66, leaves Luke with Anakin's stepbrother Owen Lars on Tatooine while Bail Organa adopts Leia, in order to protect them from darth Sidious and their father.<br/>◦ Obi-Wan Kenobi goes into exile on Tatooine. Yoda goes into exile on Dagobah.<br/>◦ Caleb Dume escapes Order 66 and goes into hiding, forsaking the Jedi ways for the next 14 years. He changes his name to "Kansas Jarrus". 
1926 | 18 BBY | ◦ The Graf family is pursued by the Empire.<br/>◦ The Antar Atrocity.<br/>◦ Bail Organa and Ahsoka Tano organize a rebel network. 
1927 | 17 BBY | ◦ The Erso family flees from Coruscant. 
1930 | 14 BBY | ◦ Darth Sidious and Darth Vadar undertake a mission to Ryloth.<br/>• The Free Ryloth movement led by Cham Syndulla attempts to assassinate the two Sith Lords.<br/>• Deaths of Belkor Dray and Isval<br/>◦ The Berch Teller campaign.<br/>◦ Moff Wilhuff tarkin enunciates the Tarkin Doctrine.
1933 | 11 BBY | ◦ Obi-Wan Kenobi rescues Luke Skywalker when the boy confronts Jabba the Hutt's henchmen about their master's "water tax," under which local farmers are suffering during the Great Drought. Kenobi carries the unconscious Skywalker to the lars family homestead and leaves before he wakes up, but the child's courage reassures Kenobi that the Jedi have not yet met their end; the waning hope is renewed.<br/>◦ Gorse conflict<br/>◦ Hera Syndulla and Kanan Jarrus join forces
1938 | 6 BBY | ◦ The Leonis family migrates to Lothal.<br/>◦ Westhills massacre<br/>◦ Dhara Leonis is kidnapped by the Grand Inquisitor and forcibly inducted into Project Harvester.<br/>◦ Westhills skirmish 
1939 | 5 BBY | Ezra Bridger is recruited by the Lothal rebels.<br/>◦ Kanan Jarrus takes up the ways of the Jedi once more and takes on Ezra Bridger as his Padawan learner.<br/>◦ Senator Bail Organa sends his droids, C-3PO and R2-D2 to stop an Imperial plan to mass-produce T-7 ion disruptor rifles on Lothal. The droids are helped by the Lothal rebels.<br/>◦ Ezra and Garazeb steal an Imperial TIE Fighter owned by Baron Valen Rudor.<br/>◦ Merei Spanjaf stages a data breach at the Imperial Transportation Ministry on Lothal.<br/>◦ The Lothal rebels embark on a mission to destroy a kyber crystal with the assistance of the Imperial cadet Zare Leonis. 
1940 | 4 BBY | ◦ The Lothal rebels disrupt the Empire Day celebration in Lothal's Capital City, prompting an Imperial crackdown on Lothal.<br/>◦ Ezra Bridger passes his trial to overcome his fears and receives a kyber crystal. He uses it in the construction of his lightsaber, which is completed several weeks later.<br/>◦ Kanan Jarrus is captured by Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin on Lothal.<br/>◦ Ezra sends out a message inciting rebellion which is heard on Lothal and in surrounding star systems.<br/>◦ The Lothal rebels mount a rescue of Kanan Jarrus, which leads to the death of the Grand Inquisitor and the destruction of the Sovereign.<br/>◦ Rescue of Dhara Leonis<br/>◦ The Empire imposes a blockade of the planet Lothal.<br/>◦ The Phoenix rebel fleet is crippled by Darth Vader, who destroys the rebel command ship, but fails to capture Lothal rebels, who escape with the remains of the rebel fleet.<br/>◦ Darth Vader dispatches two Inquisitors — the Fifth Brother and the Seventh Sister — to hunt down the Jedi Ahsoka, Kanan, and Ezra.<br/>◦ The former Clone Captain Rex joins the Phoenix rebel cell.<br/>◦ Skirmish aboard a Republic medical station<br/>◦ A prototype B-wing created by Mon Calamari engineer Quarrie is commandeered by the rebellion.<br/>◦ The Inquisitiors attempt to kidnap Force-sensitive younglings but are stopped by the Lothal rebels and Ahsoka Tano.<br/>◦ Mira and Ephraim Bridger stage a breakout in an Imperial prison on Lothal, freeing many prisoners, but are killed during the escape attempt.<br/>◦ The Empire attacks the Phoenix rebels' hidden base on the planet Garel.
1941 | 3 BBY | ◦ Princess Leia Organa supplies three Hammerhead corvettes to the Phoenix rebels on Lothal.<br/>◦ The Phoenix rebels gain safe passage through the Concord Dawn systems from the Protectors.<br/>◦ Rediscovery of the Lasat homeworld of Lira San<br/>◦ A Mining Guild Asteroid Belt Gas Refinery on an unidentified planetoid by the Lothal rebels with the help of a purgill herd<br/>The Lothal rebels with the help of the Ryloth freedom fighters led by Cham Syndulla hijacked an Imperial bomber carrier.<br/>Ambush on an Imperial construction module above Geonosis; Garazeb Orrelios and Agent Kallus form an unlikely frienship on Bahryn<br/>◦ Kanan, Ezra and Ahsoka Tano head to the Lothal Jedi Temple to seek guidance on from Master Yoda to defeating Darth Vader and his servants<br/>◦ Attack on the rebel fleet; Chopper and AP-5 helped the rebellion to discover the planet Atollon.<br/>◦ Phoenix rebel cell established Chopper Base on Atollon; Rex and the Lothal rebels secure the base against Krykna<br/>◦ Mission to Malachor<br/>• Kanan, Ezra, Ahsoka, and Chopper travel to Malachor. There, they forge a temporary alliance with the former Sith apprentice Maul to fight several Inquisitors and to obtain a Sith holocron containing knowledge on how to defeat the Sith.<br/>• Ezra, Kanan, and Ahsoka confront Darth Vader<br/>• Destruction of the Malachor Sith temple; Ezra, Kanan, and Chopper escape back to Atollon.<br/>• Vader survives the Sith temple's destruction, and Ahsoka is presumed dead. 
1942 | 2 BBY | ◦ Governor Arihnda Pryce solicits the services of Grand Admiral Thrawn and his Seventh Fleet in dealing with the growing rebellion.<br/>◦ Rescue of Hondo Ohnaka<br/>◦ Mission to Reklam Station<br/>◦ Maul kidnaps the crew of the Ghost.<br/>◦ Attack near Teralov<br/>◦ Sabine Wren recruits Wedge Antilles and Hobbie into the rebellion.<br/>◦ Second mission to Ryloth<br/>◦ Mission to Agamar<br/>◦ Second mission to the third moon of Croncord Dawn
1944 | 0 BBY (Galactic Civil War) | ◦ YES<br/>◦ Secret mission to Tatooine.<br/>◦ Owen and Beru Lars are murdered by Imperial stormtroopers; the Lars homestead is destroyed.<br/>◦ Luke Skywalker leaves Tatooine and begins training to become a Jedi.<br/>◦ The Disaster. Alderaan is destroyed by the Death Star.<br/>◦ Rescue of Princess Leia. Leia Organa is rescued from the Death Star; Obi-Wan Kenobi purposely dies in duel with Darth Vader and becomes a Force spirit.<br/>◦ Battle of Yavin. The Death Star is destroyed by the Rebel Alliance.<br/>◦ Armitage Hux is born on Arkanis.
1944 | 0 ABY | ◦ Royal Award Ceremony.<br/>◦ Evacuation of Yavin.<br/>◦ Mission to rescue the survivors of Alderaan. Leia Organa and Evaan Verlaine search the galaxy for surviving Alderaanians.<br/>◦ Skirmish over Llanic.<br/>◦ Mission to Rodia.<br/>◦ Mission to Fex.<br/>◦ Mission to Denon.<br/>◦ Liberation of Drusil Bephorin.<br/>◦ Assault on Cymoon 1. The Rebels destroy Weapons Factory Alpha, causing a significant setback in the operations of the Imperial Military.<br/>◦ Mission to Jabba's Palace.<br/>◦ Skirmish over an unidentified green planet.<br/>◦ Attack on an unidentified pirate base.<br/>◦ Theft of the Triple-Zero personality matrix.<br/>◦ Secret mission to Geonosis.<br/>◦ Arrests on Zeitooine.<br/>◦ Evacuation of Ivarujar<br/>• Before the Battle of Hoth<br/>◦ Undead troopers invasion.<br/>◦ The  Rebel Alliance establishes Echo Base on Hoth, the sixth planet in the Hoth system.
1946 | 2 ABY | ◦ Birth of Poe Damerson 
1947 | 3 ABY | ◦ Mid Rim Retreat.<br/>• Attack on Haidoral Prime.<br/>• Coyerti campaign.<br/>◦ Battle of Hoth. Thd Rebel Alliance suffers a costly blow when the Empire attacks Echo Base. ◦ Following advice from Obi-Wan Kenobi, Luke Skywalker heads to Dagobah to begin his training with Jedi Master Yoda.<br/>◦ Duel on Cloud City.<br/>◦ Escape from Cloud City.
1948 | 4 ABY | Operation Yellow Moon. Princess Leia leads a mission meant to distract the Galactic Empire while Rebel Alliance uses Sullust as a staging area for its fleet.<br/>◦ Rescue of Han Solo. Han Solo is rescued from Jabba the Hutt.<br/>• Jabba is killed by Leia Organa.<br/>• Boba Fett is presumed dead after falling in the sarlacc pit.<br/>◦ Yoda dies and Luke Skywalker discovers that he is not only truly the son of Darth Vader but also the brother of Leia Organa. He later passes this information on to her.<br/>◦ Battle of Endor. Darth Vader is redeemed and kills Darth Sidious, the Galactic Emperor, fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One and bringing balance to the Force, as well as destroying the Sith.<br/>◦ Funeral of Anakin Skywalker.<br/>◦ Assault on an Imperial outpost on the far side of Endor.<br/>◦ Outbreak of the Coruscant civil war.<br/>◦ Battle of Cawa City.<br/>◦ Imperial forces launch Operation: Cinder against Naboo, Burnin Konn, Candovant, Abednedo, and Commenor.<br/>◦Raid at the Wretch of Tayron.<br/>◦ Adelhard, the Imperial governor in charge of the Anoat sector, locks his sector down, establishing the Iron Blockade. Deprived of the Rebel Alliance's help, those trapped inside the blockade start an uprising.<br/>◦ Battle of Malastare.<br/>◦ The Rebel Alliance begins reorganizing into the New Republic, accomplishing its goal of restoring the Republic.<br/>◦ The New Republic restores the Galactic Senate on Chandrila, its capital.<br/>◦ New Republic foils Imperial attempt to restart Geonosis droid foundries.<br/>◦ Mission to Akiva.<br/>◦ Emergency summit on Akiva.<br/>◦ Rebellion on Akiva.<br/>◦ Battle of Naalol. 
1949 | 5 BBY | ◦ Mission to Vetine<br/>◦ Liberation of Bespin.<br/>◦ Siege of Arkanis.<br/>◦ Battle for Kuat Drive Yards.<br/>◦ Liberation of Kashyyyk.<br/>◦ Imperial-Republic peace talks.<br/>• Liberation Day attacks on Chandrila.<br/>◦ Naboo Sieges<br/>◦ Battle of Jakku. The New Republic and Galactic Empire engage on Jakku, with the Republic emerging victorious.<br/>◦ The Galactic Conxordance. The New Republic and Galactic Empire cease hostilities and both powers begin a process of disarmament. The remaining forces of the Galactic Empire retreat to the Unknown Regions.<br/>◦ Ben Solo is born to Leia Organa and Han Solo.
1955 | 11 ABY (Post-Galactic Civil War) | ◦ Finn is born.
1959 | 15 ABY | ◦ Rey is born. 
1965 | 21 ABY | ◦ The First Order begins using Rinnrivin Di's cartel and the Amaxine warriors to procure funds for rebuilding its navy.
1972 | 28 ABY | ◦ Amaxine warrior crisis<br/>◦ Senator Leia Organa resigns from the Galactic Senate following revelations of her parentage.<br/>◦ Leia Organa forms the Resistance.<br/>◦ Carise Sindian is expelled from the Elder Houses.
1972-1978 | Unknown period of time between 28 ABY and 34 ABY | ◦ Destruction of Luke Skywalker's Jedi. Turning to the dark side of the Force, Ben Solo prevents his uncle Luke Skywalker's plan to resurrect the Jedi Order by massacring his students. He ultimately assumes the name Kylo Ren, master of the Knights of Ren and a First Order warlord.<br/>◦ Luke Skywalker goes imto exile over Kylo Ren's fall to the dark side.
1978 | 34 ABY (First Order-Resistance conflict) | ◦ Attack on Tuanul. The village of Tuanul is sacked by the First Order, which had been pursuing a clue to the missing Jedi Master Luke Skywalker's location.<br/>◦ Escape from Jakku. Rey, a scavenger, Finn, a former stormtrooper of the First Order, and BB-8, a Resistance astromech droid, escape from the planet of Jakku to evade the Order.<br/>◦ Skirmish aboard the Eravana.<br/>◦ Hosnian Cataclysm. The Hosnian system is targeted and destroyed by the First Order's superweapon, the Starkiller.<br/>◦ Battle of Takodana. The First Order sacks Maz Kanata's castle, searching for the Resistance astromech droid BB-8.<br/>◦ Assault on Starkiller Base. Resistance forces engage with the First Order at their stronghold, destroying the Starkiller superweapon.<br?>• Han Solo is killed by Kylo Ren during the battle.<br/>◦ Rey and Chewbacca find Luke Skywalker on Ahch-To, an uncharted planet in the Unknown Regions.
1978- | Post-34 ABY | • Gammit Chond creates maps based on tales of the galaxy, qnd his works end up in the Shadow Stacks of the Graf Archive.<br/>• Many years later, Chond's drawings are exhumed by an archivist.
