|Date|Title|Invention|
|---|---|---|
1813 | *Kort verhaal van eene aanmerkelijke luchtreis en nieuwe planeetontdekking* |  Bilderdijk tells of a European somewhat stranded in an Arabic country where he boasts he is able to build a balloon that can lift people and let them fly through the air. The gasses used turn out to be far more powerful than expected and after a while he lands on a planet positioned between earth and moon. The writer uses the story to portray an overview of scientific knowledge concerning the moon in all sorts of aspects the traveller to that place would encounter. Quite a few similarities can be found in the story Poe published some twenty years later.
1818 | *Frankenstein* | The short novel features the archetypal "mad scientist" experimenting with advanced technology. 
1826 | *Roger Dodsworth: The Reanimated Englishman* | sees a man frozen in ice revived in the present day, incorporating the now common science fiction theme of cryonics whilst also exemplifying Shelley's use of science as a conceit to drive her stories.
1835 | *The Unparalleled Adventure of One Hans Pfaall* | in which a flight to the moon in a balloon is described. It has an account of the launch, the construction of the cabin, descriptions of strata and many more science-like aspects.
1836 | *Predki Kalimerosa: Aleksandr Filippovich Makedonskii* | which has been called the first original Russian science fiction novel and the first novel to use time travel. In it the narrator rides to ancient Greece on a hippogriff, meets Aristotle, and goes on a voyage with Alexander the Great before returning to the 19th century.
1859 | *The Legend of the Centuries* | a long poem in two parts that can be viewed like a dystopia/utopia fiction, called 20th century. It shows in a first scene the body of a broken huge ship, the greatest product of the prideful and foolish mankind that called it Leviathan, wandering in a desert world where the winds blow and the anger of the wounded Nature is; humanity, finally reunited and pacified, has gone toward the stars in a starship, to look for and to bring liberty into the light.
1869 | *Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea* | mixed daring romantic adventure with technology that was either up to the minute or logically extrapolated into the future.
1871 | *The Case of Summerfield* | and introduced weapon of mass destruction. A mad scientist and villain called Black Bart makes an attempt to blackmail the world with a powder made of potassium, able to destroy the planet by turning its waters into fire.
1872 | *Erewhon* | dealing with the concept that machines could one day become sentient and supplant the human race.
1888 | *Looking Backward* | its effects extending far beyond the field of literature. Looking Backward extrapolates a future society based on observation of the current society.
1889 | *A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court* | By means of "transmigration of souls", "transposition of epochs – and bodies" Twain's Yankee is transported back in time and his knowledge of 19th-century technology with him. Written in 1889, A Connecticut Yankee seems to predict the events of World War I, when Europe's old ideas of chivalry in warfare were shattered by new weapons and tactics.
1894 | *Land of the Changing Sun* | a dystopian fantasy set at the center of the earth. In Harben's tale, the earth's core is populated by a scientifically advanced civilization, living beneath the glow of a mechanical sun.
1895 | *The Time Machine* | for example, the technical details of the machine are glossed over quickly so that the Time Traveller can tell a story that criticizes the stratification of English society. The story also uses Darwinian evolution (as would be expected in a former student of Darwin's champion, Huxley), and shows an awareness of Marxism.
1898 | *The War of the Worlds* | the Martians' technology is not explained as it would have been in a Verne story, and the story is resolved by a deus ex machina, albeit a scientifically explained one.
1907 | *Lord of the World* |  Robert Hugh Benson wrote one of the first modern dystopias
1927 | *Metropolis* | in which the first cinematic humanoid robot was seen, and the Italian Futurists' love of machines are indicative of both the hopes and fears of the world between the world wars. Metropolis was an extremely successful film and its art-deco inspired aesthetic became the guiding aesthetic of the science fiction pulps for some time.
1948 | *Nineteen Eighty-Four* | He envisions a technologically governed totalitarian regime that dominates society through total information control.
1953 | *The Quatermass Experiment* | was shown on British television, the first significant science fiction show, though it could also be described as horror. 
1965 | *Dune* | a dense, complex, and detailed work of fiction featuring political intrigue in a future galaxy, strange and mystical religious beliefs, and the ecosystem of the desert planet Arrakis.
1865 | *Alphaville* | used the medium of dystopian and apocalyptic science fiction to explore language and society.
1984 | *Neuromancer* | announced the cyberpunk movement to the larger literary world and was a tremendous commercial success. Other key writers in the movement included Bruce Sterling, John Shirley, and later Neal Stephenson. Though Cyberpunk would later be cross-pollinated with other styles of science fiction, there seemed to be some notion of ideological purity in the beginning. John Shirley compared the Cyberpunk movement to a tribe.
2003 | *Pattern Recognition* | the story is a cyberpunk story told in the present, the ultimate limit of the near-future extrapolation.
