|Year|Event|
|---|---|
1600s | Sometime after March 24, 1603, during the Tokugawa shogunate, Toshiro Kago is abducted by mothership *Zeta* from Japan. 
1612 | Captain John Smith discovers Point Lookout. 
1630 | Boston's North End is settled.
1635 | Concord is incorporated. 
1660 | The Old Granary buying ground is established in Boston. 
1680 | The Paul Revere House is built, the oldest structure in Boston. 
1692 | The infamous Salem witch trials begin.
1697 | May 17: Andrew Endicott is abducted by mothership *Zeta* from his home in Salem.
1711 | The Great Fire of 1711 occurs in Boston.<br/>The Cabot House is constructed in Boston's Beacon Hill neighborhood.
1713 | The Old State House is built. 
1723 | The Old North Church in Boston is built.
1733 | Boston's Trinity Church is founded.
1742 | Peter Faneuil establishes Faneuil Hall and donates it to the city of Boston.
1770 | The Boston Massacre occurs outside the Old State House, where five American colonists are killed by British forces.<br/>Paul Revere purchases his house in Boston's North End.
1775 | April 18: Lieutenant Colonel Smith marches with 700 British soldiers to concord. Robert Newman climbs the Old North Church and lights two lanterns to warn patriots of the soldiers.<br/>April 19: The American Revolutionary War begins with the Battle of Lexington and Concord.
1776 | July 4: The American colonies declare independence from Great Britain as the United States of America.
1783 | September 3: The Treaty of Paris brings the American Revolutionary War to an official close.
1787 | The Shamrock Taphouse is established in Boston Harbor.
1797 | The USS *Constitution* is finished at the Charlestown Navy Yard in Boston.
1798 | The Massachusetts State House is completed to house the government of the state of Massachusetts.
1843 | The Bunker Hill Monument is completed using granite from quarries in Quincy.
1851 | The historic Wildwood cemetery is founded.
1861 | April 12: The American Civil War begins.
1865 | April 9: The American Civil War is officially brought to an end.
1874 | April 19: Booker DeWitt is born.
1877 | The present day structure for Trinity Church is completed.
1890 | December 29: Booker DeWitt is present at the Wounded Knee Massacre, and is given the nickname "The White Injun" by other members of his regiment, due to his violent actions against the Native Americans. 
1891 - 1892 | Booker DeWitt, remorseful for his actions at Wounded Knee, attends a baptism ceremony presided over by Preacher Witting.<br/>In one timeline, Booker rejects his baptism at the last moment.<br/>In another timeline, Booker accepts baptism and is born again, taking on the name Zachary Hale Comstock. 
1892 | January 22: Booker DeWitt is employed by the Pinkerton's National Detective Agency. 
1892 - 1893 | Booker DeWitt's daughter, Anna, is born. Her mother, Annabelle DeWitt, dies in childbirth. 
1893 | Comstock successfully lobbies the U.S. Congress to provide funding for the construction of Columbia, a city he intends to make a modern-day ark. Columbia starts a global tour of major cities.<br/>May 1 - October 30: The 1893 Chicago Worlds fair occurs, giving rise to the concept of American exceptionalism. The star attraction of the exposition is the floating city of Columbia, an ambitious project envisioned by the self-proclaimed prophet Zachary Hale Comstock, designed by Rosalind and Robert Lutece, and funded by the U.S. government.<br/>October 8: Booker DeWitt gives up his daughter to pay off his gambling debts, and fails to save her after changing his mind.<br/>Anna's pinkie finger is severed by a closing Tear as she is transported into an alternate universe by Comstock and the Luteces. By existing in two realities simultaneously she is able to intuitively manipulate Tears.<br/>Comstock presents Anna DeWitt, renamed "Elizabeth", as the "Lamb of Columbia", and makes the claim that Lady Comstock gave birth to her after only a week of gestation to explain Elizabeth's sudden appearance.<br/>In the final universe that is seen (in the after-credits scene), where Comstock never existed, Booker is back in his office. He opens the door that leads to the crib, calling out Anna's name.<br/>October 15: Rosalind Lutece gives Voxophones to her "twin" in order to explain how he came to be in her reality.  
1894 | April 6 - May 14: Lorenzo Cabot discovers a ruined city in the Arabian desert in which he claims to be the lost city of Ubar. During the excavation, he stumbled upon an alien artifact and falls under its unstable influence.<br/>August 12: Jeremiah Fink starts using Tears to access scientific advancements from other realities, after his brother made fortune from stealing music of future eras.<br/>November 14: Fink observes Yi Suchong through Tears opened in Rapture and starts to copy the scientist's research of ADAM to expand his own company's inventions.  
1895 | Schoelt, a distributor of propane fuel, is founded.<br/>Lady Comstock is allegedly murdered by Daisy Fitzroy. Unbeknownst to Columbia's public, Lady Comstock was actually killed by her husband after she threatened to reveal that Elizabeth was not their child. Daisy Fiztroy was a servant in Comstock House at the time. Comstock framed Fitzroy for his wife's death in order to hide the truth.<br/>Daisy Fitzroy takes refuge in Finkton. At some point, she inspires the formation of the Vox Populi and becomes their leader.<br/>Marlowe begins to sell bottles of Murder of Crows in Columbia.<br/>October 4: Fink discovers Big Daddies through Tears and their irreversible conversion process which give him the idea of creating the Songbird.    
1895 - 1897 | As Columbia's construction continues, Elizabeth is imprisoned in the tower of Monument Island, both to protect her from the Vox Populi and the "False Shepherd", and to allow secret scientific study of her reality-altering abilities by the Luteces, which provides Columbia with numerous technological advances taken from alternate realities. 
1896 | March 4: Fink cuts all ties with Suchong after the discovery of an accidental yet successful imprinting between the Songbird and its target, Elizabeth. 
1898 | June 11: Lorenzo Cabot is admitted to Parsons State Insane Asylum.
1900 | April 9: Worker #08-IZ9 starts his job at Fink's Chronologically Precise Manufacturing and receives written instructions from his superior, Foreman #08-2QI, including a secret message from the Vox Populi asking his help to smuggle out Fink's products for their cause. The same day, Fink Manufacturing starts producing Broadsider guns to arm each of Columbia's police enforcers against the uprising Vox Populi, while the revolutionaries, founded as non-violent, start selling the smuggled weapons on the black market to finance the revolution.<br/>August 15: Fink Manufacturing starts producing Bird's Eye rifles as requested by Jefferson Poole to equip police force snipers. The Vox Populi divert some of the weapons to use to keep the city's rooftops under their control.<br/>October 31: During a fire at the Fink Manufacturing facility, the city's leadership detaches part of the structure from the city to prevent the fire's spread, resulting in the deaths of numerous workers. Following this date, the Vox Populi become increasingly militant under the leadership of Daisy Fitzroy. 
1901 | January 1: A first production of a new lightweight rifle, the Huntsman, is manufactured at Fink. The same day, a violent clash occurs between Vox Populi militants and police forces at Finkton Wharf Shipping Dock as the latter tried to prevent workers from distributing handbills.<br/>Columbia becomes involved in an international incident—during the Boxer Rebellion, Columbia opens fire on Chinese citizens in Beijing, revealing to the world that the city is heavily armed.  
1902 | July 6: The U.S. government formally disavows Columbia's involvment in the Boxer Rebellion and recalls the city. Outraged, Zachary Comstock declares Columbia's secession from the United States and the city vanishes into the clouds.<br/>The anniversary of Columbia's secession becomes a city-wide holiday celebrating the city's independence.<br/>July 23: A strike occurs in the city's factories and significantly paralyzes production. The situation turns into a brutal brawl between the workers and the police, leading to a round-up of insurgents, and death among the policemen. Vox Populi legal representative John Goldman calls for peaceful resolution to avoid further violence. 
1903 | February 13: Daisy Fiztroy reveals herself as the leader of thw Vox Populi.<br/>November 23: A bomb is discovered by the police forces, following an anonymous tip, and it is revealed as belonging to the Vox Populi. Several eyewitnesses, however, report seeing men dressed as police members placing the explosives before the arrival of the official investigation, leading both sides to accuse one another.<br/>Solider's Field amusement park is completed.
1904 | June 1: Fink resumes production of Barnstormer rocket launchers, which was left on hold after Boxer Rebellion incident.<br/>Payton Lane Easter & Sons begins producing Automated Stallions.<br/>Emporia Towers is bombed by a man the Vox Populi believe to be an unnamed postman.<br/>The Siphon is installed in the tower on Monument Island and begins to limit and harness Elizabeth's powers.
1905 | Vanderwall & Palmer begins to sell Sky-Hooks for traveling on Columbia's Sky-Line.<br/>Chen Lin opens his Gunsmith Shop in the Plaza of Zeal at Finkton.<br/>March 16: The Vox Populi attack the local prison and rescue several of their comrades. As a result of the situation, Chief Poole's leadership is questioned, and Fitzroy reconsiders John Goldman's loyalty to the cause. 
1906 | April 11: Chief Poole is assassinated by an unknown sniper during a meeting with city officials and the act is claimed by the Vox Populi. Police officer Harrison Thacker is appointed as Chief of Police, and publicly announces a fierce campaign to be made against Vox Populi terrorism.<br/>September 3: Orrin Oscar Lutwidge is born.
1907 | May 17: Police forces strike a violent blow at a cabal of Vox Populi in retaliation to Poole's assassination, but with heavy losses on both sides. 
1908 | June 4: The Vox Populi bombs the office of Columbia's treasurer Montgomery Billings to destroy the debt records of the working class. The bombing caused no casualties.<br/>September 17: Construction of the RMS Titanic begins in Belfast Harbour.
1909 | May 7: Daisy Fiztroy is captured by Columbia's Police following a tip regarding plans for sabotage to the Sky-Line network. Legal expert John Goldman reassures the rebels that there was no betrayal from within the Vox Populi. Fitzroy is sent to the Comstock House Re-Education Center to be studied by Dr. Francis Pinchot before her sentencing.<br/>May 9: Daisy Fitzroy is sentenced to death by immolation on the 14th of May, and her body to be thrown out of the city. John Goldman, who dissapeared since her arrest, is revealed to the Vox Populi to be the traitor who gave away their leader. Unknown to the public, Fitzroy is scheduled for a lobotomy before her execution.<br/>May 13: A bomb detonates at Comstock Plaza where Fitzroy's execution was in preparation. At the same time, Vox members get into Comstock House and Dr. Pinchot is betrayed and murdered by Daisy Fitzroy after promising to assist in her escape before the lobotomy.<br/>October 31: The Luteces are supposedly killed after one of their machines is sabotaged by Jeremiah Fink. Instead, it disperses them across multiple realities, allowing them to exist across all of time and space. 
1911 | May 31: The RMS Titanic is registered in Liverpool, England and launches on its maiden voyage.<br/>August 15: Columbia's police force debuts the Motorized Patriot. The Vox Populi see it as another reason to rally against the Founders. 
1912 | March 13: City officials grant Police Chief Thacker the authority to apply his "Final Strike" and arrest the rest of the Vox Populi members. The rebels renew their determination in the conflict.<br/>April 14-15: The RMS Titanic collides with an iceberg at 41° 46′ N, 50° 14′ W, and starts sinking.<br/>June 11: Jeremiah Fink considers changing Vigors formula to injectable ones to reduce their production cost.<br/>The Lutece twins find Booker DeWitt and bring him into Comstock's timeline so he can reclaim Elizabeth. Across at least 122 different realities, none of Booker's attempts are successful.<br/>July 6: Columbia celebrates the 10th anniversary of its secession with the United States. The events of BioShock Infinite occur.<br/>The events of BioShock Infinite and existence of Columbia are erased from the multiverse due to Booker DeWitt and Elizabeth's actions. Burial at Sea has Elizabeth visit a version of Columbia, which takes place before the erasure of the Columbia timelines.
1914 | July 28: World War I begins. 
1918 | Sunset Sarsaparilla enters production.<br/>In baseball, Boston wins the 1918 World Series.<br/>November 11: World War I comes to an end. 
1917 | Undefined date: Pearl Philips is born.
1919 | Undefined date: Andrew Ryan, as a child, flees Russia in the wake of revolution; arrives in the United States of America.
1920s | Lamplight Caverns is converted into a tourist attraction.
1923 | James Millard Oakes is born.
1931 | Vim! Pop Inc. is founded in Mount Desert Island in Maine by Herbert Reed.
1932 | March: Vikki and Vance begin their crime spree.
1936 | June 15: Charles Milton Porter graduates from Lincoln University with a Master of Mathematics degree.
1939 | June 17: Pearl Philips and Charles Milton Porter are married.<br/>August 26: After accepting a job opening from Alan Turning, Charles Milton Porter and his wife Pearl take the Apollo Airways Flight DF-0113 from Philadelphia to London, to begin working with him for the Allies.<br/>September 1: beginning of World War II. 
1940 | September 7: Beginning of the Blitz on London. Pearl Porter is killed by the first bobing.
1941 | December 7: The Attack on Pearl Harbor occurs. The United States declares war on Japan and officially enters the Second World War.
1942 | Sierra Army Depot is built. Its mission is to store and maintain a defensive supply of military ordnance. This mission continues until 1991. 
1943 | ? The Los Alamos Nuclear Research and Development facility, codename: the Reservation, completes construction. Los Alamos becomes part of the research team for the Manhattan Project.<br/>October 5: The German U-boat U-336 captained by Hans Hunger is sunk in the Straits of Denmark south-west of Iceland, in position 62°43'N,27°17'W, by rockets from a British Hudson aircraft.
1945 | May 7: Germany surrenders to the Allied Powers, and World War II ends in Europe.<br/>July 16: The first atomic bomb is detonated by the United States during the Trinity Test on the test site of Los Alamos National Laboratories, new Mexico.<br/>August 6: United States drops an atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima. Sofia Lamb survives the bombing but loses all her friends in the explosion.<br/>August 9: A second atomic bomb is dropped on the Japanese city of Nagasaki.<br/>August 21: Andrew Ryan announces the plans for the construction of Rapture. He discusses the manner in which the city will be built and how they will keep the building materials hidden from the government.<br/>September 2: End of World War II. Japan officially surrrenders to the Allied Powers, and World War II completely comes to an end. Sometime between now and 1961, divergence occurs.
1946 | Undefined date: Work begins on the construction of Rapture.<br/>Brigid Tenenbaum disappears.<br/>James Millard Oakes disapppears.<br/>Jean Louis Roget disappears.<br/>Mimi Tabor and Elgar Vankin disappear.<br/>Icelandic fisherman complain of "dead seas" and allege that oil slicks have killed off whole areas of the ocean.<br/>February 13: Lutwidge Property Management declares fictitious business name.<br/>March 8: Liddell & Lewis Publishers declares fictitious business name.<br/>April 5: Scarlet Sovereign declares fictitious business name.<br/>May 20: Scarlet Sovereign sends an invoice to Warden Yarn for large amounts of steel.<br/>November 5: Rapture's infrastructure is built up enough to become habitable for a large population. The city opens to an influx of citizens.<br/>December: Yi Suchong noted missing in Chinese paper.
1947 | Repeated equipment failures on commercial vessels; shipping routes are shifted quietly by NATO.<br/>A USAF C-47 "Skytrain" vanishes with seventeen troops and two decorated pilots after a bizarre final radio call.<br/>A Child's Garden of Cyphers is published by Liddell & Lewis.<br/>Dr. J.S. Steinman disappears.<br/>February: A number of Australians, including Kyburz, disappear from Turtle Bay.
1948 | Frank Fortaine arrives in Rapture.<br/>Julie Langford disapppears on surface.<br/>The Farmer's Market is established.<br/>June 16: Fontaine Futuristics designs an advertisement for a Teleportation Plasmid.<br/>July 21: A Boeing B-29-100-BW Superfortress crashes into Lake Mead, remaining mostly intact. 
1949 | Undefined date: Construction on Fontaine Fisheries is nearly finished.<br/>Lotz & Sons is established.<br/>Hop-Up! is established.<br/>Zachary Hale Comstock arrives in Rapture and takes on the alias of Booker DeWitt.<br/>October 1: The people's Republic of China is founded by the Chinese Communist Party and its leader Mao Zedong. 
1950 | Undefined date: Sofia Lamb arrives in Rapture.
1951 | (Presumably) Rapture is finished. Andrew Ryan cuts off contact with the surface.
1952 | April 17: Lutwidge pens a letter to Warden Yarn from Scarlet Sovereign with concerns about being used as a "shield" for North Atlantic construction project.<br/>December 19: Lutwidge Property Management produces Statement of Holdings (filed 21st).
1953 | The ill-fated Baldur vanishes during the second leg of its quixotic attempt to follow the Viking charts. Their last recorded position was was in 63°3'N,27°4'W.
1954 | June 22: In a letter, Lutwidge expresses his disappointment that Ryan did not invite him to Rature.
1955 | Reports of a "Phantom Lighthouse" precedes the discovery of six capsized Icelandic fishing vessels.<br/>October 22: The Russian KGB publishes an internal report about various missing persons cases and suspected defection to western democracies.
1956 | Undefined date: Jack is "born" in a lab under the supervision of Tenenbaum and Suchong.<br/>Jet-Postal's Pneumo system is activated in Rapture, on the 10th anniversary of Rature's founding.<br/>Final radio transmissions from the British vessel *Ice Beagle* before its disappearance: "*That doesn't make sense. It shouldn't be there... do you see them? They're watching us!*"<br/>The I.O.O.P. (International Order of the Pawns) ships out its introductory pamphlet for those desiring to quest for Rapture.<br/>July 12: A successful mind control test on Jack is recorded by Suchong.
1957 | Undifined date: Celeste Roget travels to the Himalayas to find her father.<br/>After discovering the city of Rapture by accident, a deep sea explorer is nicknamed 'Johnny Topside' by the city's populace and becomes something of a celebrity.<br/>January 22: Frank Fortaine installs the first Power to the people machine in Rature.
1958 | Early September: Frank Fontaine passes out Plasmids, some of which are still experimental, to some of his followers and employees in preparation for the conflict to soon come.<br/>September 9: One of Fontaine's loyal men, Ray Lardner, starts to suffer from the heavy side-effects of the Old Man Winter Plasmid given to him by his boss.<br/>September 10: Fontaine cancels the production of drinkable Plasmids developed by Suchong in favor of injectible versions, due to the drinkable's high cost in ADAM when Fontaine Futuristics was unable to effectively produce sufficient quantities of ADAM. <br/>September 12: On success of Sullivan's investigations of Rapture's smuggling ring, and following Ryan's orders, Fontaine is ordered arrested and his criminal operation shut down. Fontaine resists, resulting in a major firefight at Fontaine's front business Fontaine Fisheries. A full assault is launched by Ryan Security, and Frank Fontaine fakes his own death in the mayhem that ensued.<br/>Undefined date: A revolutionary named Atlas begins protesting and rallying supporters against Ryan's philosophy in running Rapture.<br/>Ryan is given false evidence that Charles Milton Porter swore loyalty to Fontaine and has him incarcerated in Persephone. Control of Rapture Central Computing, The Thinker and so Minerva's Den are handed over to his colleague Reed Wahl.<br/>Brigid Tenenbaum goes into hiding (eventually residing under the streets of Olympus Heights) and starts to rescue Little Sisters. Ryan Industries publicly dismisses her disappearance.<br/>Control of the Silver Fin Restaurant is handed over to Suchong by Ryan when the owner reports the Tear that had appeared there.<br/>Big Daddies are commissioned by Andrew Ryan to protect Little Sisters in Rapture during the mounting civil unrest.<br/>The bonding process for Protectors and Gatherers was still a work in progress. Where as Dr. Yi Suchong had difficulties with adapting the Protector Bond for all Big Daddies and Little Sisters to accept it, Gilbert Alexander creates the Alpha Series to use the Pair Bond as a more permanent solution.<br/>Atlas and some of his closest followers are sent to Fontaine's by Ryan to prevent them from causing further trouble.<br/>Sofia Lamb takes control over Persephone from Sinclair.<br/>The Incinerate! and Telekinesis Plasmids are released to the public.<br/>October 8: Elizabeth first arrives in Rapture in search of Zachary Hale Comstock through a Tear opened in the Silver Fin Restaurant at Fontaine's Department Store.<br/>October (Undefined date): Tears start appearing throughout Rapture. Suchong becomes aware of the phenomena and sends investigators to study them.<br/>Suchong becomes aware that Jeremiah Fink of Columbia has been stealing his research on Plasmids and had developed a drinkable formula by introduction of an 'oxidizing agent'.<br/>Suchong recreates Fink's drinkable Plasmids and starts selling them through Ryan Industries.<br/>The Kashmir Restaurant hosts its yearly gala, with an unknown purpose.<br/>December 2:<br/>Some of Fontaine's former employees and the remainder of his army are sent to Fontaine's Department Store, after it is converted into a prison and is separated from the city,[44] by the orders of the Rapture Central Council.<br/>December 23: Sander Cohen brings down Sally to the department store.<br/>December 25: The Manta Ray Lounge, where supplies were stored for the prisoners under Atlas' command, is overrun by Splicers.<br/>December 31: The events of Burial at Sea begin.<br/>Sander Cohen hosts The Business of Rapture is Business at his private club.<br/>Zachary Hale Comstock and Elizabeth are killed by a Bouncer in the Toy Department. However Elizabeth remained in existence because of her quantum-superposition and leaves Rapture for "Paris."<br/>Elizabeth returns to the Toy Department to save Sally from Atlas, and by returning, her quantum state collapses, loosing her Tear manipulating abilities, trapping her in Rapture.<br/>Ryan Security is sent to Fontaine's Department Store for Operation Deep Dive: To find and eliminate Atlas and Elizabeth.<br/>Atlas and his followers escape Fontaine's Department Store.<br/>The Masquerade party is thrown; the Kashmir Restaurant is attacked during the 1958 New Year's Eve Riots, and the Rapture Civil War begins.<br/>During the riots, the power to Ryan Amusements is cut off, trapping everyone inside, including Carlson Fiddle, and Nina Carnegie with an entire third grade class.<br/>Subject Delta is forced to shoot himself by Sofia Lamb while under the influence of a Hypnotize Plasmid.
1959 | The Rapture Civil War takes place. Rapture goes from a working society to a warzone, as Ryan and Atlas fight for control. Both sides actively splice, and many citizens splicing for their own self-defense become unstable. The people who survive and keep their sanity stay barricaded in small holdouts within the city. During this time, Sofia Lamb builds up more followers, who escape from the bloodshed, in Persephone.<br/>The events of BioShock 2 Multiplayer begin.<br/>January: Terrified citizens pull all of their money out of the banks causing an economic collapse.<br/>Alexander discovers that the Pair Bond is too unstable, and decomissions the bond and Alpha Series.<br/>Maintenance Big Daddies are chosen to be programmed as new protectors.<br/>Yi Suchong is killed in his Free Clinic by a Bouncer while working on the Protection Bond.<br/>Elizabeth is murdered by Atlas after giving him the Ace in the hole and the events of Burial at Sea ends.<br/>The last recording by Nina Carnegie is made, still trapped in Ryan Amusements with the children.<br/>A powerful bomb is<br/>detonated in Fin De Siècle Boutiques, destroying an entire level of the building.<br/>The Vita-Chamber project is fast-tracked and the devices are installed throughout the city.<br/>Undefined Date: The Hypnotize Big Daddy Plasmid is released to the public.<br/>The Limbo Room is forced to close, making Grace Holloway unemployed.<br/>The Atlantic Express is bought by Austin Bathysphere Co.<br/>Siren Alley becomes the city's red light district when its residents suffer from the economic collapse.<br/>Jasmine Jolene is murdered by Andrew Ryan.<br/>Apollo Square is turned into a containment camp for the growing number of citizens against Ryan.<br/>Ryan puts all Bathyspheres into genetic lock-down, with only authorized personnel (and close genetic matches to them) able to use them.
1960 | Booker DeWitt and Elizabeth arrive inside the Welcome Center of Rapture shortly after using Songbird to destroy Monument Island and the Siphon that restricted her powers in 1912. The creature, trapped outside the building, is killed by the crushing pressure of the ocean's depths. The duo then use the Bathysphere docked at the Bathysphere Station to reach the Lighthouse on the surface, through which Elizabeth is able to open a passage to the Sea of Doors, the place outside space and time, allowing access to all realities. With this, the young girl is able to reach Booker's past and reveal to him his true memories.<br/>When this event occurs in relation to BioShock is unknown. However, the Electro Bolt Plasmid in the Gatherer's Garden is missing, the glass tunnel that Jack walks through past the malfunctioning door is broken and unusable (the one that gets destroyed by the airplane's wrecked tail at the beginning of the game), the floating wreckage of the plane itself is nowhere to be seen once they have reached the surface, and finally Booker and Elizabeth are able to use the Bathysphere, which was genetically locked down by Andrew Ryan, suggesting that the evnts of BioShock had already started before their arrival or when Jack was fighting with Fontaine and Andrew Ryan was already dead. 
1961 | May 5: Captain Carl Bell of the United States Space Agency becomes the first human to enter space; this claim is disputed by both the Soviet Union and China. Captain Bell's flight in Space Capsule *Defiance 7* lasts only twelve minutes and seven seconds, and makes a full revolution around Earth. Bell dies when the capsule crashes on its return to Earth. 
1969 | By this year, the United States is divided into thirteen commonwealths, each of which encompasses several states.<br/>The national flag is changed to reflect the division and depicts fourteen stars - thirteen in a circle to represent the commonwealths and one in the middle to represent the federal government and the nation as a whole.<br/>July 16: The Virgo II Lunar Lander *valiant 11* with U.S.S.A. astronauts Captain Richard Wade, Captain Mark Garris, and Captain Michael hagen lands on the moon. The astronauts become the first humans to walk on a celestial body other than Earth.<br/>November 14: Virgo III Lander *Valiant 12* lands on the moon. 
1981 | A fallen building from Columbia is found high in the Alps, leading to the discovery of several Columbian artifacts, among them a Sky-Hook in its wooden box, a bottle of Murder of Crows, a Custom Authority book from 1907, a propaganda poster warning of the "False Shepherd," and othe objects. The rest of the city remains hidden to the world. 
1983 - 1984 | december 31 - January 1: In a timeline where Booker DeWitt and Elizabeth meet, but Elizabeth is recaptured by Songbird, Columbia emerges from isolation and brazenly attacks New York City. Zachary Comstock's prophecy that Elizabeth would lead Columbia to "drown in flame the mountains of man" is fulfilled.<br/>An elderly Elizabeth, responsible for the leadup to the attack but unable to prevent it herself, summons Booker to this time from 1912 and gives him the musical sequence to control Songbird so that this reality can be avoided. 
1992 | The mission of Sierra Army Depot is changed. It is now responsible for the demilitarization of stores of surplus ammunition that have been deemed unfit or obsolete for military purposes. This mission is to be overseen by the Industrial Operations Command in cooperation with the Environmental Protection Agency, providing a greener, cleaner way to dispose of military ordnance. The mission continued until 2050. 
2002 | The West Tek Research Facility is founded.
2016 | Wonderglue is established this year.
2020 | The *Delta IX* rocket is commissioned by the U.S.S.A. the *Delta IX* rocket is the last of the manned rockets to the Moon.
2021 | Hubris Comics begins publishing comic books, one of their most popular is *Grognak the barbarian*. 
2026 | The original Vim! Pop Inc. factory burns down.
2031 | The Boston city council unanimously votes to bury Emilia Butler in the Old Granary burying ground.
2034 | The *Delta IX* rocket is converted for the U.S. military purposes. Crew and instrument sections are replaced with a nuclear warhead.
2037 | The Mister Handy series of robots is first brought to market as a general construction and maintenance unit by General Atomics International. 
2039 | ? Prometheus Coal, a division of Poseidon Energy, opens a coal mine in central Utah. As a result a small village is settled nearby called Eagle Rock.<br/>An early bug in Mister Handy robots that caused interference in the operation of the multiple arms is fixed with a hardware update, with no major problems since then.
2040 | Gametitle-VB The Tibbets Prison is commandeered by the United States government in association with Vault-Tec and Poseidon Oil to tie into their Project Safehouse. On April 5, 2040, the Secretary of the Army makes the decision to build a new Disciplinary Barracks, with a capacity for 456 inmates. A cost ceiling of $363 million in allocated construction dollars is set. The target budget year for funding this project is fiscal year 2041. Construction begins in fall of 2042, with completion projected for fall of the year 2045.
2041 | August 16: Doctor Morrison Rand is abducted by aliens on-board Mothership Zeta when leaving the campus of Banfield College in Humboldt.
2042 | A major earthquake takes place in Mexico City. The Mister Handy general construction robot becomes the leader in sales in Mexico.
<br/>Wilson Automatoys is established in Boston, Massachusetts.<br/>Giddyup Buttercup, a product of Wilson Automatoys, is copyrighted.
<br/>June 25: Robert House founds RobCo Industries.<br/>Gametitle-VB July: Discussions with Vault-Tec to determine space and functional requirements for the new Tibbets facility occur.
2044 | Nuka-Cola is invented by John-Caleb Bradberton.<br/>The Great Passion Fruit Famine hits America. People actually notice the taste difference in Nuka-Cola when the passion fruit flavor is removed.<br/>The X277 "Viper" magnetic rail cannon developed for the U.S. Military by West Tek is deemed too costly to produce on a mass scale and abandoned.
2050 | April 28: The Nuka-World power plant suffers from a meltdown. The accident was later covered up by the Nuka-Cola Corporation. The employee who reported it, an employee named C. Carlson, was apparently fired and the other employees had to be reminded of their employee agreement to not discuss park matters. The problem was seemingly ignored from then on.<br/>May 1: Nuka-World opens its gates for the first time with two theme parks, Nuka-Town USA and Kiddie Kingdom, selling over 40,000 tickets that day.
The mission of Sierra Army Depot is changed again. It is refurbished with the latest in technology and is from now on used as a secret research installation for developing and testing robotic, biological and conventional weapons until 2076.
2051 | Seeking to protect business interests and their oil supply, the United States begins to exert increasing pressure on Mexico, citing the political instability and pollution stemming from Mexico as a threat to the United States. Various economic sanctions serve to destabilize Mexico, and the United States military enters Mexico to keep the oil refineries running and making sure oil and fuel continue to make their way north across the border at Mexico's expense.<br/>The N99 10mm pistol becomes standard issue military sidearm following the phase out of the N80.
2052 | A television documentary revealing the withered husk of the Texas oil fields brings the oil shortage into American households and reveals how deep the energy crisis runs.<br/>The last manned mission to the Moon occurs.
The widely known Nuka-Cola’s Dazzling Blue bottle color was adopted as standard after market research programs indicated that the blue color was the favorite in 86 people out of a hundred polled.
March 5: The socially transmitted "New Plague" arises, killing tens of thousands. The United States closes its borders and the first-ever national quarantine is declared. The source of the plague is unknown, but rumors persist that it is a genetically engineered weapon.<br/>April: The Resource Wars begin. Many smaller nations go bankrupt, and Europe, dependent on oil imports from the Middle East, responds to the Middle East's rising oil prices with military action. The long drawn-out war between the European Commonwealth and the Middle East begins.<br/>May - July: The United Nations, already suffering, begins to collapse. In a series of heated debates, many nations withdraw from the organization as the U.N. tries to keep the peace.<br/>July 26: The United Nations is officially disbanded.
2053 | ZAX 1.0 goes online, developed by Vault-Tec. Initially a prototype of some of the systems designed to govern the vaults, it is given to the government to help the Department of Energy collect resource data. Within a year, it is taken by the military for plague and tactical research; one version, ZAX 1.2, would later be constructed for West Tek.<br.>The 'Red Menace' holotape game is released to the public.<br/>December: Like an exclamation mark on the end of a very bad year, a terrorist nuclear weapon destroys Tel Aviv.
2054 | REPCONN Aerospace is founded following the first launch of the Delta IX rocket.<br/>January: Limited nuclear exchange in the Middle East raises fears throughout the world.<br/>In light of the European-Middle Eastern War and the plague scare, the United States officially sets Project Safehouse in motion. The project, financed by junk bonds, is designed to create shelters, called Vaults, for the populace in the event of a nuclear war or deadly plague. Construction begins late in 2054 and proceeds rapidly due to advances in construction technology.
2055 | West Tek starts working on a new virus to kill the New Plague. Their viral research and close ties to the federal government eventually lead to them being chosen for the Pan-Immunity Virion Project twenty years later as well as power infantry armor and laser research.<br/>ZAX 1.2 is brought in to regulate conditions in West Tek. It is not part of the Vault-Tec preservation software, so it does not have any orders to protect humanity after the bombs fall. In the meantime, it calmly calculates data and plays chess with the scientists. Many scientists claim that ZAX is a "big ol' cheater" and draws the game out too much for a computer of his considerable abilities.
2057 | Gametitle-VB February: United States government removes the Grand Canyon's protected status as a national park.<br/>Gametitle-VB May: Uranium mining begins in the Grand Canyon. The Grand Canyon is closed indefinitely.
2058 | May: Nuka-World opens a new park, Dry Rock Gulch during Memorial Day weekend. Park attendance nearly doubles overnight.<br/>Isla Negra Holdings begins to take control of Point Lookout, Maryland as the New Plague devastates the region.
2059 | The Anchorage Front Line is established, as the United States increases its military presence in Alaska to protect its oil interests. The Anchorage Front Line causes tensions between the United States and Canada, as the United States attempts to pressure Canada into allowing American military units to guard the Alaskan pipeline.<br/>The first artificial intelligence is born. Limited by memory constraints, its expansion is rapidly halted. The discovery paves the way for future A.I. research in laboratories throughout the United States.
2060 | Traffic on the streets of the world stops moving. Fuel becomes too precious to waste on automobiles, so alternatives are explored - electric and fusion cars begin to be manufactured, but factories can only make limited amounts while conserving fuel. The U.S. economy teeters on bankruptcy. Pressure on fusion research increases.
The European-Middle Eastern War ends as the oil fields in the Middle East run dry. There is no longer a goal in the conflict, and both sides are reduced almost to ruin.<br/>The European Commonwealth dissolves into quarreling nation states, fighting over the remaining resources.
2061 | March: Construction of Vault 108 begins.
2062 | May: Construction of Vault 92 begins.<br/>Despite quarantine measures, the New Plague continues to spread, fueling national paranoia.<br/>Gametitle-VB Many Mormon congregations come together to purchase places in Vault 70, located in Salt Lake City, Utah.<br/>A U.F.O. codenamed "Palandine" crashes just north of Hagerstown, Maryland, but cannot be recovered.<br/>Wan Yang is arrested as a suspect in the Niagara Sabotage.
2063 | Gametitle-VB Dr. Willem Clark, a top nuclear physicist in his day, is put in charge of all scientific endeavors at the Reservation. Colonel Green, a career soldier in the U.S. army, is put in charge of security.<br/>August: The construction of most vaults are completed, except for Vault 13, whose construction finally gets off the ground heralding a development cycle that seems plagued with problems. Drills begin in the other cities with completed vaults, but the increasing frequency of the drills has a "cry wolf" effect, and the turnouts for drills trickle off as the years go on.<br/>Grognak & the Ruby Ruins holotape game is released to the public.
2064 | March: Construction of Vault 106 begins.
2065 | Gametitle-VB The Reservation is given orders to research and produce nuclear missiles that can be fired from an orbiting space platform.<br/>Robert House concludes that atomic war would devastate the Earth within 15 years after every projection he ran deemed it a mathematical certainty.<br/>February: Construction of Vault 76 begins.<br/>April 14: The M.A.R.Go.T. computer enters service.<br/>June: Due to enormous demands for electricity from a 17+ million population, a nuclear reactor in New York City goes supercritical, almost causing a meltdown. The near meltdown brings into effect power rationing, and the term "Hot Summer" is used to refer to this incident.<br/>
August: Increasing need for mobility in the United States mechanized cavalry leads the military to focus the efforts on creating a man-based tank - essentially, a two-legged walking armored unit: power armor. Research grows until 2067 and several prototypes are developed, many of which prove to be unworkable in the field. These prototypes pave the way for future advances in military, construction and fusion technology.
2066 | The U.S. Navy missile cruiser USS Ebon Atoll is accidentally sunk by the U.S. Navy Submarine USS Interference during the Anchorage Campaign. The Interference mistook the Ebon Atoll for an enemy vessel and shot it with a nuclear torpedo killing all on board. It is one of the worst U.S. Navy disasters since World War II.<br/>Gametitle-VB Resource rationing in Denver causes riots. Midwest U.S.A. and Mexico start having food shortages and can't supply Denver with the food it needs. Food riots occur. National Guard called in.<br/>Gametitle-VB With more important things to spend their money on, Poseidon Energy closes the inefficient and dangerous Eagle Rock mine complex and sells it to the U.S. government.<br/>May: Construction of Vault 87 begins.<br/>Spring: As the oil resources dry up across the globe, China's fossil fuel dependency causes an energy crisis in the nation. China, bordering on collapse, becomes more aggressive in its trade talks with the United States. The United States' unwillingness to export oil to China leads to a breakdown in talks between the two countries.<br/>Summer: Adding further insult to the Sino-American relations, the first crude fusion cell is unveiled, one of the results of the power armor project. Devices designed for the fusion cell begin to be manufactured. Incorporating fusion power into the general U.S. infrastructure begins, but the process is too slow to supply power to the regions that need it. Nearly eleven years later, few sections of the United States were supplied with fusion power.<br/>Winter: In the winter of 2066, China invades Alaska. The Anchorage Front Line becomes a true battleground.<br/>Winter: As a sign of increasing tension between the two countries, Canada proves reluctant to allow American troops on Canadian soil or allow American planes to fly over Canadian airspace. American and Canadian tensions rise, but Canada eventually backs down, and U.S. troops pass through Canada. This sets the stage for the Canadian annexation in 2076.
2067 | September: Nuka-World opens a new park, Safari Adventure. As with Dry Rock Gulch, attendance nearly doubles overnight.
The first suit of T-45d power armor is deployed in Alaska. While lacking the full mobility of future versions, this power armor is incredibly effective against Chinese tanks and infantry. Its ability to carry heavy ordnance becomes key in various localized conflicts, and it has the power to destroy entire towns without endangering the wearer. China rushes to create its own versions, but they are many years behind the United States.<br/>By this year, a Nuka-Cola vending machine can be found on almost every street in America.
Gametitle-VB Senator Todd Peterson decides to build a secret bunker to house himself and his family should war break out. Senator Peterson is a wealthy man in his own right, but lacks the funds necessary for such a project. Through secret dealings with Poseidon Oil and a covert branch of the government known as the Enclave, the final funding for the project is attained. A construction site is chosen in southern Colorado and work begins.
2068 | May: Construction of Vault 92 ends.
November: Construction of Vault 112 begins.
2069| Canada begins to feel the pressure from the United States military as the U.S. draws upon Canadian resources for the war effort. Vast stretches of timberland are destroyed, and other resources in Canada are stretched to the breaking point. Many Americans refer to Canada as Little America, and Canadian protests are unheard.<br/>February 11: By order of the U.S. government, all Patriot's Cookbook magazines are banned and incinerated. However, many magazines still remain in circulation.<br/>March: Vault 13 is finally completed - it is the last of the vaults on the West Coast, and drills begin. Due to its late completion, the "cry wolf" effect that hurt the other vaults is not as pronounced.<br/>October: Construction of Vault 76 ends.
December: Construction of Vault 106 and Vault 108 ends. Vault 108 was in construction for 8 years due to work stoppage.
2070 | The first of the Chryslus Motors fusion-driven cars are developed. Reassuringly big and American, the limited models carry a hefty price tag but are sold out within days. Many Chryslus plants have long since been converted into making military ordnance.
2071 | Planned Diversion Programming copyrights the hologame Atomic Command.
Atomic Command is released to the public.<br/>December: Construction of Vault 87 ends.
2072 | June: Ezra Parker prevents the assassination of Sergey Urbonas.<br/>June 3: Canada begins to be fully annexed by U.S.A. It is fully integrated by January of 2076.<br/>The United States' increasing demand for Canadian resources causes protests and riots in several Canadian cities. An attempted sabotage of the Alaskan pipeline is all the military needs as an excuse to finalize its annexation of Canada, which had already begun in 2067.<br/>Legislative Act 21-0 is passed by the United States Congress.
Gametitle-VB Completed B.O.M.B. missiles are sent to different space centers around the U.S. so they can be carried into space and installed into the B.O.M.B. satellites. The process is slow, but it is being carried out fairly regularly.<br/>Nuka-World opens a new park, Galactic Zone. Becoming the most popular attraction in Nuka-World.
2073 | Gametitle-VB August: The Ballistic Orbital Missile Base, or B.O.M.B.-001, is completed and partially functional (for security and maintenance bots) using a temporary onboard generator. The only things the base needs are the manually input final launch instructions and codes and the main power reactor.<br/>September 15: As China becomes increasingly aggressive with their use of biological weapons, the United States government feels that a countermeasure was needed. The Pan-Immunity Virion Project is officially formed and plans are made to begin experiments at the West Tek Research Facility in Southern California.
2074 | Contrary to their claims of seeking only to retake Alaska from the Reds, American power armor units, infantry and mechanized divisions are deployed to China, but they become bogged down on the mainland, putting a further drain on American resources and supply lines.<br/>Gametitle-VB Government decision makers order the dumping of radioactive waste into Eagle Rock's lower mines. Enclave politics help secure a contract for Poseidon Energy to develop and use their Agricola mining robots in the operation of the dumping ground. Not surprisingly, the Agricola lab turns out to be a pretty good bunker as well.<br/>June: Construction of Vault 112 ends.
June 24: Negotiations between the U.S. and other world powers come to a dramatic end, with the president walking out of oil talks with the other world powers. After a much-heated debate, the president storms out of the meeting and declares that the last known supply of petroleum will be used exclusively by the U.S. and the U.S. will not sell or trade any oil to outside parties.<br/>Gametitle-VB July: The new Bloomfield Space Center completes construction. The facility's first task is to complete the space rockets Hermes XIII and Hermes XIV to fly to B.O.M.B.-001 and -002 respectively (originally slated for a Mars mission before new orders arrived). The mission: have the crew deliver and install the bases' main power reactors, manually enter final launch instructions, manual check for safety nets and protocols, and do a manual inspection of the station.
2075 | The Sierra Army Depot A.I., Skynet, becomes self-aware.<br/>RobCo Industries copyrights the Unified Operating System. This system is used for operating the RobCo terminals. The copyright is renewed for each of the next two years.<br/>RobCo brings up plans to purchase REPCONN Aerospace, threatening a hostile takeover otherwise.<br/>Vault-Tec Game Studios copyrights the hologame "Red Menace".<br/>Ezra Parker is selected by Modern Industrialist to be in the Top Ten Up and Coming Venture Capital Managers.<br/>March 21: PVP experiments continue at West Tek with batch 10-011, in the wake of successful tests of the virus on single-celled organisms. Experiments on plant cells are postponed. The pan-immunity virion is renamed Forced Evolutionary Virus (FEV).<br/>May 9: FEV experiments continue at West Tek with batch 10-011, in the wake of successful tests on flatworms; the flatworms exhibit increased size and heightened resistance to viral contagions. Experiments with insects have less success, and further experimentation on insects is postponed by Major Barnett.<br/>May: Vault 112 seals two years early, for Stanislaus Braun's sadistic desires.<br/>June: General Brock becomes the commanding officer of Fort Strong.<br/>June 30: FEV experiments continue at West Tek with batch 10-011, with white mice as subjects. Increased size, muscle density and intelligence are noted.<br/>August: The United States Space Administration awards contracts to ArcJet Systems to develop the XMB booster engine and deep range transmitter for their Mars Shot Project, a manned mission to Mars.<br/>November: Unidentified submarine contacts, rumored to be stealth subs of the Chinese "Ghost Fleet" are spotted by U.S. monitoring stations A-31 and B-19, but no further sightings are reported.<br/>November 9: FEV experimentation (batch 10-011) on rabbits is concluded. Increased size, intelligence and aggression is noted; it is difficult to determine whether the flatworms in the previous experiments were angrier and more violent than normal. Frankly, the researchers cannot be blamed for this.<br/>December 17: A general of the US military visits the Switchboard facility and receives a report from P.A.M. that Chinese stealth technology far outpaces that of the United States, and that the unidentified submarines spotted by U.S. monitoring stations a month prior may be from the Chinese "Ghost Fleet", an elite naval unit rumored to possess stealth-capable submarines. The general dismisses the intelligence as unsubstantiated, but P.A.M. responds by stating no actionable intelligence has come out of the Shaanxi Province of China since November 2072, except for a reported increase in the importation of complex polymers and key synthetic compounds. P.A.M. indicates that these are consistent with research into stealth technology on a large scale, but the general states that unless concrete evidence can be provided, such information is rumor.
2076 | REPCONN Aerospace is bought out by RobCo Industries.<br/>Vault 76 is debuted by Vault-Tec Corporation in honor of the United States' Tricentennial.<br/>January 3: A military team under the command of Colonel Spindel is sent to the West Tek research facility to monitor the experiments in the interest of national security, due to fears of international espionage.[28] Captain Roger Maxson (the grandfather of John Maxson, the High Elder of the Brotherhood of Steel in 2161) is among the team personnel.[40]
January 12: Splicing in several new gene sequences into their test virus, dogs are injected with batch 11-101a at West Tek. Although increased strength is noted, increased intelligence is not. Using batch 11-011, experiments are conducted on raccoons. The same results are noted, but the attempted escape of several infected raccoons causes Major Barnett to terminate the experiment... and the test subjects. Two pairs of raccoons, however, are unaccounted for.<br/>Note: Scott Campbell and Brian Freyermuth intended these escaped raccoons to form an intelligent animal community northwest of the Glow called the "Burrows". This location was never implemented.
January: The United States annexation of Canada is complete. Canadian protesters and rioters are shot on sight, and the Alaskan Pipeline swarms with American military units. Pictures of atrocities make their way to the United States, causing further unrest and protests.<br/>April 15: Once all secondary tests and studies are done on the test subjects, all dogs from the batch 11-101a Forced Evolutionary Virus (FEV) tests at West Tek are terminated... from a safe distance.<br/>June: Power armor prototype completed, resulting in the T-51b power armor. This is the pinnacle of power armor technology before the Great War. Many of these units are sent to China, and they begin to carve a swath through the Chinese forces. The Chinese resources are strained to the breaking point, and the supply lines from the nations China has annexed begin to break down.<br/>July: Flotation Homes and Seaweed is published by Vault-Tec.<br/>August: Food and energy riots begin in major cities throughout the United States. Military units begin to be deployed in cities within the United States to contain rioters; many temporary prisons are constructed. A state of emergency is declared and martial law soon follows.<br/>Gametitle-VB August: Hermes XIII and XIV are completed, loaded with cargo and placed on the Bloomfield launch platform, awaiting the final funding and the okay to launch.<br/>Gametitle-VB October: Production of B.O.M.B. nuclear missiles is put on hold due to budget cuts. The Reservation is put on reserve.<br/>Gametitle-VB October: Due to the seriousness of world events and the threat of nuclear war, Hermes' launch is postponed while funds are routed to Vault technology. Launch is rescheduled for 2077.<br/>October 4: At West Tek, fifteen chimpanzees are infected with batch 11-111. The most successful test to date, growth and immunities in the chimpanzees surpass all other subjects. The military practically drools over the results. Plans are made in secret to begin testing in small quarantine towns in North America, and the Mariposa Military Base construction is sped up in anticipation of moving the West Tek project to a location under military supervision.<br/>October 20: Nuka-Cola Quantum is created.<br/>Gametitle-VB November: Enclave personnel seize control of Bloomfield Space Center and begin researching and developing a way to convert Hermes XIII and XIV into a personnel transports to transport important individuals off-planet.<br/>December: Fifteenth edition of Coping With Mr. Virus! is published by Vault-Tec.<br/>Pipfall, the holotape game is released into the public.
2077 | Nick Valentine, a police detective from Chicago, is brought to Boston to apprehend notorious criminal Eddie Winter during "Operation Winter's End." It ends in failure, resulting in the death of Valentine's fiancee, Jennifer Lands, by Winter who escapes capture. Valentine seeks treatment for PTSD and has his brain scanned, eventually being used to implant artificial memories into a prototype synth over a century later.
Automobile coolant prices sky rocket with the regular coolant price being $7450.99 per gallon and $8500.99 per gallon for premium.[73]
Robert House puts himself in stasis.[74]
A Chinese sabotage attempt takes place at Hoover Dam.[75]
Gametitle-VB New Plague hits Denver. Rioters burn down large parts of the city in their fear of contamination and anger at their treatment. Many panic and flee the city by car, clogging the freeways when they run out of gas and trapping everyone behind them.[56]
January 7: Major Barnett orders transfer of all Forced Evolutionary Virus (FEV) research to the newly constructed Mariposa Military Base, despite objections by the research team.[67]
January 10: Alaska is reclaimed, and the Anchorage Front Line is again held by the Americans.[40]
January 22: The first domestic use of power armor within the United States for crowd and quarantine control begins. Units originally serving in China and the Anchorage Front Line find themselves fighting Americans at home. Food riots increase and many civilians are killed. Several soldiers defect from the military, both in Canada and the United States. They are captured and sent to military prisons.[40]
February: FEV Research is leaked to the world through an unknown source. Protests arise in many major cities and governments around the world, as well as accusations that the United States is responsible for the New Plague. F.E.V. is seen as the threat, and serves only to fuel tensions. The governments of the world fear what the U.S. is up to, speculating anything from trying to make a breed of super soldier to trying to make Hitler's master race, they begin to panic.[40]
March: Prepared for a nuclear or biological attack from China, the President and the Enclave retreat to the Poseidon oil rig and make contingency plans for continuing the war.[40][76]
March: Vault Dweller's Survival Guide is published by Vault-Tec.[53]
April: an American destroyer is sunk, one of the surviving soldiers on board being Thomas Davis, a member of Beaver Creek Lanes.
April 2: John-Caleb Bradberton puts himself in stasis using the LEAP-X Program.[72]
April 28: An accident occurs at Nuka-World's power plant, causing a large amount of coolant to discharge into the river. Park administration covers up the incident and fires the whistleblower.[77]
July: Between July 10 and October 23: Sierra Army Depot is evacuated.
July 4: After contact with the contaminated lake water causes a medical crisis at a General Atomics-sponsored bass fishing tournament, Lake Quannapowitt is closed to the public.[78]
August: Sometime prior to August 15, General Constantine Chase, the hero of the Anchorage Reclamation, begins testing a virtual reality simulation of the Reclamation at the VSS Facility in Washington, D.C..
September 6: Technicians at the VSS Facility notice General Chase is making radical, unrealistic changes to the Anchorage simulation. They believe Chase is becoming obsessed with the simulation and is gradually going insane, but refrain from confronting him out of fear that they will lose their jobs to military contractors.
October 10: The Army detachment at Mariposa discovers that the scientists have been using "military volunteers" (military prisoners who didn't have their brains scooped for use in brain bots) as test subjects in their experiments. Morale in the base breaks down, and in light of Colonel Robert Spindel's mental breakdown, the men turn to Captain Roger Maxson for leadership.[79]
October 13: After an interrogation, Maxson executes Robert Anderson, the chief scientist at Mariposa.[79]
October 15: Colonel Spindel commits suicide. All scientists are executed.[79]
October 20: Captain Roger Maxson, now in control of Mariposa, declares himself to be in full desertion from the army via radio... and receives no reply.[79]
October 21: Maxson orders all families stationed outside the Mariposa facility moved inside.[79]
October 22: The platinum chip is processed. Mr. House expects the courier to arrive tomorrow afternoon.
October 23: The Great War
Early morning: The Commander of the U.S. Pacific Fleet and the U.S. Air Force report sightings of possible Chinese submarines at 00:01 am EST and aircraft approaching US territory at 03:37 am.
A pre-Halloween costume show was going to be on later that day, called Freddy Fear's House of Scares. The preparations were made that morning.
Nuka-Cola Quantum is released to the public.
82 students from the Early Dawn Elementary school go on a field trip to Lamplight caverns with a couple of teachers and a few parent chaperons.[80]
Federal agents raid L.O.B Enterprises.
Dr. Hein is taken hostage by the A.F.A.D. at the Angry Anaconda in Nuka-World.
09:13 am EST: The Integrated Operational Nuclear Detection System (IONDS) reports four probable launches of ballistic missiles. The US Armed Forces go to DEFCON 2.
09:17 am EST: NORAD confirms the IONDS report. The US Armed Forces go to DEFCON 1. Bombers are scrambled for immediate takeoff.
09:26 am EST: Response Scenario MX-CN91 is ordered by POTUS. Full nuclear retaliation is authorized.
The bombs and missiles fly. Who struck first is unknown. Other countries, seeing the missiles on their way, launch their planes and fire their warheads as well. Air raid sirens sound, but very few people heed the warning, thinking it is a false alarm. The vaults are sealed. Two hours of nuclear bombardment ensues upon the earth's surface. The effects are far worse than most imagined. The Earth's faults shift violently, thrusting mountain ranges through the soil. Whole lands are submerged under floods of water.[79]
Fallout 4 prologue begins.
9:42 am: Nuclear strikes on New York City and Pennsylvania are confirmed.
The Sole Survivor and their family evacuate from their home to Vault 111.
9:47 am: Washington D.C. and Boston are struck with nuclear weapons.
The Great Blackout: EMP produced by the bombing kills unshielded electronic devices such as vehicles and other machinery. It lasts for an unknown period of time.
In the confusion of the Great War, mothership Zeta abducts Sally and her family.
The Sierra Madre Casino hermetically seals itself during the grand opening gala and the holographic security murders all of the guests except Dean Domino.
The Lucky 38's systems crash under the weight of the nuclear attack, knocking Robert House unconscious.
The platinum chip, still at Sunnyvale, becomes buried under the rubble from the aftermath of the Great War where it would stay buried for over 200 years.
Vault 12 fails to close properly. Once it becomes known that the other vaults have sealed, people within Bakersfield attempt to force their way into Vault 12 to protect themselves and their families.[81]
The West Tek research facility takes a direct hit, breaking open the FEV tanks on levels four and five and releasing it into the atmosphere. Mutated by radiation, it loses its mutagenic abilities, but it later complicates things for the Master.[82]
The Mariposa Military Base survives, the soldiers within protected from the radiation and FEV flooding the wasteland.[79]
Gametitle-VB Surviving scientists and soldiers based in Los Alamos band together with other survivors they encounter for safety. They set up a temporary camp in a cliff dwelling at Mesa Verde and attempt to contact the federal government for further instructions. No contact is ever made. A small vault is built into the cliff side to shield the only computer they have from the elements.[83]
Gametitle-VB All Enclave personnel leave Bloomfield to either take cover or maintain "hot spots." The sub-reactor is turned off. Bloomfield, B.O.M.B.-001, and 002, and Hermes XIII and 14 are completely forgotten.[63][64]
Thirteen nuclear warheads obliterate Salt Lake City within seven minutes.
Gametitle-VB Two Poseidon scientists are still trapped in the Agricola lab. After four years, one dies of natural illness. After one more year, the other commits suicide.[34]
Gametitle-VB Seismic activity causes radiation to seep into the sub-levels of the Reservation. Even though the people underground are safe from the blasts, radiation eventually takes its toll.[25]
October 24: The Boylston Club adds a Memoriam Gala to its October events calendar.
October 25: Platner takes his power armor outside Mariposa to get specific readings on the atmosphere. He reports no significant radiation in the area surrounding the facility.[79]
October 27: After burying the scientists in the wastes outside of Mariposa, the soldiers seal the military base, then head out into the desert, taking supplies and weapon schematics with them. Captain Maxson leads his men and families to the government bunker at Lost Hills.[79][84]
Note: Although Maxson's points in his holodisk indicated that civilian personnel (presumably families of the scientists or other civilians not associated with the military) were to remain at the base, whether they did or not is unknown.
October 30: A week after the initial blast, a black rain begins to fall, caused by the massive amounts of radioactive particle debris (mainly soot) from the nuclear firestorm a week earlier. Plants and animals both go rapidly into extinction.[40]
October 30: Surviving members of the Boylston Club who can make it to the clubhouse attend a Memoriam Gala. At midnight, they drink a final toast of poisoned wine and presumably all die.
November: Captain Maxson, his men and their families, arrive at the Lost Hills bunker a few weeks later, suffering many casualties along the way, including Maxson's wife (but not his teenage son). The surviving soldiers go on to become the Brotherhood of Steel.
November: Ms. Carrie Delaney is the last adult to leave Little Lamplight Caves in search for help. Ten-year-old child Jason Grant takes charge in her absence.
November 2: Psychoactive drugs are released throughout Vault 106.
December 25: The security and support staff of Vault 111 celebrates Christmas.[85]
2078 | ---













